#summary Frequently asked questions.

==How do I zoom==

Using keys `1`, `2`, `3`, `4`, `5`, `6` (those above the QWERTY keys), or the mouse wheel.

==How do I scroll==

Pressing the mouse wheel (middle mouse button), or holding the space bar and drag & dropping with the left mouse button.

==How do I rotate the selection==

See SelectionTools page.

==Why do I see double-sized pixels==

Each Aseprite pixel uses 2x2 real pixels on the screen. It is designed in this way to reproduce look & feel of old sprite editors, and it is achieved only using this special configuration of pixels on the screen.

If you want to edit images with the full screen resolution, you've a workaround:
  # Close aseprite
  # Open `aseprite.ini` file (or `~/.asepriterc` on Mac OS X and Linux)
  # Find `ScreenScale = 2`
  # Replace with `ScreenScale = 1`
  # Save, close the file, and run aseprite again

==Move layers in the stack==

You've to use the _Animation Editor_. To open it you can press the `Tab` key or `View > Animation Editor` menu. Then you can drag-and-drop layers at the left side of the screen.

==Export a .gif to a sequence of .png files==

You can open the `.gif` with `File > Open` and then select `File > Save` choosing a file name like `frame00.png`. When the operation is completed, you will get a sequence of files like `frame00.png`, `frame01.png`, `frame02.png`, etc.

==Flip selection horizontally or vertically==

See [Flip] section.

==Scroll with arrow keys==

You can scroll with Ctrl+arrow keys. The scroll amount is the tile size. If you want to scroll with arrow keys, for example, one pixel, you can modify the `data/gui.xml` file *adding* these lines in the `<commands>` section:
{{{
<commands>
 <!-- ... -->
 <key command="Scroll" shortcut="Left">
  <param name="direction" value="left" />
  <param name="units" value="zoomed-pixel" />
  <param name="quantity" value="1" />
 </key>
 <key command="Scroll" shortcut="Right">
  <param name="direction" value="right" />
  <param name="units" value="zoomed-pixel" />
  <param name="quantity" value="1" />
 </key>
 <key command="Scroll" shortcut="Up">
  <param name="direction" value="up" />
  <param name="units" value="zoomed-pixel" />
  <param name="quantity" value="1" />
 </key>
 <key command="Scroll" shortcut="Down">
  <param name="direction" value="down" />
  <param name="units" value="zoomed-pixel" />
  <param name="quantity" value="1" />
 </key>
</commands>
}}}
And *removing* these lines:
{{{
 <key command="GotoPreviousLayer" shortcut="Down" />
 <key command="GotoNextLayer" shortcut="Up" />
 <key command="GotoPreviousFrame" shortcut="Left" />
 <key command="GotoNextFrame" shortcut="Right" />
}}}