#summary Steps to do a new release.

= Release Steps =

Here we've a simple list of steps to create a new release. It's for the main distributor of packages, so generally you should not be reading this.

== Windows Package ==

  * Fetch all changes from `master` branch, and reset the working copy to the HEAD.
  * Change the `VERSION` preprocessor definition in config.h to the new version. Update the version attribute in `data/gui.xml` file too. *Do not commit this change.*
  * Create a new `build-VERSION` directory to compile this specific version.
  * Execute `cmake .. -G "NMake Makefiles"` in that directory. Modify flags (replace /MD with /MT) to use static C++ runtimes. Use RelWithDebInfo configuration, the compilation must include .pdb files so we can debug a memory dump in the future.
  * Compile with `nmake`. If something goes wrong, make a change and commit that change. Compile until it's everything ok.
  * Create the distribution package executing the `misc/dist.sh` script.
  * Test the package decompressing and executing it.
  * Create a tag in the commit used to create the package. The tag can be created after publishing the new version and checking that everything is OK.

== Publish ==

  * Upload packages to http://code.google.com/p/aseprite/downloads/entry
  * Update the ReleaseNotes page.
  * Create a blog entry with the main news.
  * Update the official site (http://www.aseprite.org/) with the new version.
  * Tweet the blog entry and create a post in Google+ linking the blog.