#summary What is new in each version.

== Aseprite 0.9.7 ==

*Work-in-Progress*...

== Aseprite 0.9.6 ==

*Beta stage*

  * New Timeline, it's a work in progress of issue 293 (it replaces the Animation Editor):
    * Issue 110: Configurable onionskin settings.
    * Issue 182: Select/delete/edit properties of multiple frames/layers.
  * New context bar with useful options for the current drawing tool (issue 132).
  * Added (optional) scroll-bars to sprite editor (issue 260).
  * Added option for Eye Dropper to grab alpha value (issue 134).
  * Export to JSON format from command line (issue 17). (A next version should contain the export feature from the UI.)
  * Live animation preview in mini editor (issue 105).
  * Add [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image_scaling#RotSprite RotSprite] algorithm as a possibility to scale/rotate the selection (issue 121).
  * Added pixel-perfect drawing algorithm for pencil tool (issue 315)
  * Fixed issue 46 and issue 150: Unicode support on Windows for file names.
  * Fixed issue 46 and issue 294: Added Cyrillic script (Russian) and missing German Unicode characters.
  * Fixed issue 185: Fix crash when editing the color palette.
  * Fixed issue 212: Remove frame doesn't displace frame durations.
  * Fixed issue 239: Some performance improvements.
  * Fixed issue 277: Now you can change the default palette.
  * Fixed issue 279, issue 280, issue 284 and issue 285.
== Aseprite 0.9.5 ==

  * Fixed issue 163, issue 164, and issue 165.

== Aseprite 0.9.4 ==

  * Added support to resize the color-bar.
  * Fixed regression bug introduced in 0.9.2: menu navigation using keyboard stopped working.
  * Fixed issue 143: Crash in "File > Open/Save" when aseprite.ini contains an invalid path.
  * Fixed issue 160: Crash Undo-ing Layer Delete.

== Aseprite 0.9.3 ==

  * Now Shift key locks the X/Y axis when you drag & drop the selection.
  * Add support to load GIMP palettes (issue 112).
  * Fix bug with Export Sprite Sheet when the cel is bigger than the sprite's size.
  * Fix regression bug: Enter/Tab/Escape keys don't work in list-boxes.
  * Fix bug showing "modified" status in the document tab.
  * Fix issue 130: crash redoing a "convert to grayscale mode" command.
  * Fix issue 44: problems browsing files when the option "hide extensions for known file types" is activated in Windows Explorer.
  * Fix issue 129: Return to frame/layer where action is undone (configurable option).

== Aseprite 0.9.2 ==

  * Added scroll-by tile size feature (issue 90): you can press Ctrl+Arrow keys to scroll by tile size.
  * Fix problem losing hue value in palette editor (issue 100).
  * Fix problems loading .ase files (issue 102).
  * Fix problems with Trim (issue 106).

== Aseprite 0.9.1 ==

  * Now you can transform (move/scale/rotate) the selection directly ([http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R6i29DHTNSs video]).
  * Integrated copy & paste logic with selection.
  * Text field in the status bar to go to frame (issue 6).
  * Button in status bar to create new frames.
  * Fixed regression bug: now you can clone the selection using Ctrl+drag & drop as in 0.8.2.
  * Fixed issue 52: Text entries do not work in Import Sprite Sheet.
  * WARNING: The "N" keyboard shortcut was changed to "Alt+N" to avoid creation of frames by mistake.
  * Closed issue 48 and issue 50.
  * Ctrl+Tab and Ctrl+Shift+Tab to navigate between tabs.
  * Avoid 100% CPU usage (issue 47).

== Aseprite 0.9 ==

  * Added Import/Export Sprite Sheet (issue 4).
  * Added support to resize the window in X11, Mac OS X, and Windows platforms.
  * Improved "Canvas Size" command ([http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=psNjGZRrm9w video]).
  * New color selectors with improved RGB and HSB sliders ([http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nDHSqABBK-k video]).
  * Changes in keyboard shortcuts (some of these changes were made to avoid tool-switching confusion):
    * Elliptical Marquee: Shift+M (it was "M")
    * Polygonal Lasso: Shift+Q (it was "Q")
    * Ellipse: Shift+U (it was "U")
    * Polygon: Shift+D (it was "D")
    * Curve: Shift+L (it was "Y")
    * Spray: Shift+B (it was "S")
  * Added automatic check for updates (issue 13).
  * Bugs fixed:
    * Issue 14 - Don't ask for saving changes when read-only commands are used.
    * [https://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=detail&aid=3050538&group_id=20848&atid=120848 #3050538] - File dialog does not show files (sometimes).

== Aseprite 0.8.2 ==

  * Fixed a critical bug: split an editor, close it, and change tool (crash).
  * Fixed Paste command when we use it in an empty frame.
  * Fixed [http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=3051174&group_id=20848&atid=120848 bug #3051174] (reported by Trent Gamblin): Loading two or more times gui.xml file.

----

[OldNews Old News]