#summary What is expected for next releases.
#sidebar MainSidebar

== General Goals ==

  * Visible timeline in Sprite Editor (integrate the current Animation Editor to the Sprite Editor [https://plus.google.com/102156040653649496700/posts/hQ2VbGwUUny mockup]).
  * Total palette control.
  * Tilemaps editor (issue #140, issue #59).
  * More functions for sprite sheets (e.g. [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sprite_(computer_graphics)#Sprites_by_CSS CSS Sprite Sheets]).
  * [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texture_atlas Texture atlases generation]
  * [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parallax_scrolling Parallax scrolling] testing.
  * Batch processing. E.g. Projects with several automated post-production process (e.g. automated build process to generate sprite sheets and texture atlases).

== Aseprite 0.9 ==

  * DONE ~~Resizable window~~.
  * DONE ~~Automatic check for updates~~.
  * DONE ~~Export/Import sprite sheets~~.

== Aseprite 0.9.1 ==

  * DONE ~~Copy/Paste/Selection/Transformation integration: Currently the "copy, paste, rotate & scale" workflow is unrelated with "select & move" feature. Should be possible to select a region and resize/rotate it (without the need to copy and paste)~~.
  * DONE ~~Integrate the paste operation with new transformation controller~~.

== Aseprite 0.9.6 ==

  * DONE ~~Live animation preview in mini editor~~.
  * Brushes.
  * New Animation Editor UI.

== Aseprite 0.9.x ==

High priority:
  * Simplify multi-sprite editors handling: You should be able to drag & drop editors' tabs to split them horizontally or vertically (remove Ctrl+1, Ctrl+2, etc. shortcuts).
  * Projects management (settings per file, grid size, automatic sprite sheets import/export, etc.).
  * Implement tile set editor as in issue #140

Medium priority:
  * Add undo to each transformation phase.
  * Shade drawing mode.
  * Full palette control: several new options, improved editor, remap colors, more color control in cut/copy/paste operations between files, etc.
  * Implement [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image_scaling#RotSprite RotSprite] algorithm.

== Aseprite 1.x ==

  * Layers blending modes (like in ASE 0.7.2).
  * Add support for hotspots and "hot-rectangles".
  * Export/import files to/from XML+PNG (my_sprite.xml + my_sprite_files/**.png).